[Music]
unit one hotels is Rex in a good hotel
yes it's one of the best in the area
what are the rooms like the hotel offers
a variety of accommodation both
bungalows and suites are available is
there a restaurant there yes the hotel
is a wonderful restaurant all meals are
buffet style where is the hotel it's
located right on the beach all the
bungalows are right on the water's edge
that sounds good
thank you very much what's the Grand
Hotel like the hotel offers good service
and value for money how big are the
rooms the rooms are spacious and simply
furnished what about the location the
hotel's great location makes it ideal
for a quiet retreat you can really relax
and unwind is it close to the sea yes
the beautiful beach is only a short walk
away that sounds perfect
thank you very much for your help can
you tell me a little bit about the hotel
the accommodation is clean comfortable
and affordable what types of rooms are
available single twins and double rooms
are available they are either superior
or deluxe what do the rooms look like
the hotel has recently been renovated
and modernized so all the rooms are
pleasantly decorated and furnished is
the hotel situated near any of the
city's attractions the hotel is located
within walking distance from all the
local points of interest unit 2 travel
and transport
[Music]
good morning sir did you have a nice
flight very good thanks I had a stopover
in Bangkok last night
so it was just a short domestic flight
for me today our minibus is waiting
right outside I have to wait for just
one more passenger to arrive and then
we'll set off
well the journey take very long not at
all about 20 minutes what time does the
other guests get in oh he was on the
same flight as you so he should be here
any minute
great I'm going on the tour tomorrow
what time will I be picked up oh the bus
will pick you up around 7 a.m.
please wait at your hotel reception it
will call for you can you tell me a
little about tomorrow's itinerary
certainly the trip starts at 7 when we
pick you up at your hotel we'll stop off
at a couple of other hotels to collect
some more guests and then it's straight
to a UTF will we stop for something to
eat on the way we'll stop at a small
restaurant for breakfast and then we'll
have our lunch around midday what time
are we due back I will drop you off at
your hotel around 6:00 thank you you're
very welcome
can you tell me how to get to the grand
palace sure there are a number of ways
to get there you could take a bus taxi
or a tuk-tuk is that one of those
three-wheeled vehicles I've seen around
that's right the traffic is so bad at
this time of day though it'll take quite
a long time to get there
it might be better for you to take a
boat well that sounds better anyway
yes it's quite nice to escape the
traffic and cruise up and down the top
of a river how frequently do the boats
run during the day they run every 15
minutes or so that's great thanks for
your help you're welcome
unit 3 conversation openers good morning
how are you fine thanks and you very
well thank you
did you sleep well yes I was so tired I
went to bed really early I'm glad to
hear that you had a good night's sleep
because we have a lot of interesting
things to see today great I can't wait
I'm going to talk to the other guests
now please let me know if I can be of
any assistance thank you I will hi how
are you very well thank you
is this your first visit to Thailand yes
it is I'm really enjoying it how long
are you staying I'm on a two-week
holiday I have already been here one
week so I have one more to go
where have you been so far I spent the
first week on the beach relaxing now I
have a week of sightseeing good I hope
you enjoyed the tour please feel free to
ask me any questions you like I'm always
willing to help
thanks very much that's very kind of you
hello again I'm sorry what did you say
your name was
I'm James sorry James
so what do you do back home oh I'm an
accountant
that's interesting do you enjoy your job
oh you know it pays the bills do you
enjoy this
yes I'm very proud of our history and
culture and it's great to share that
with people don't you get bored at all
oh there's always someone new to talk to
and always some questions that haven't
been asked before
it's nice when someone enjoys their work
yes I love meeting new people and I
enjoy practicing my English too I think
your English is very good and certainly
a lot better than my Thai thank you
you're very kind
unit for the tour please tell me about
the most popular resort areas in
Thailand Thailand has many inland and
coastal resorts I already know about
many of the resorts in southern Thailand
what about the rest of the country
central Thailand has beautiful rivers
and waterfalls and there are mountains
and lush forests in the north the Thai
scenery certainly does sound fantastic
would you like me to book anything for
you now wow there is so much to do and
so little time to do it I will have to
think about how long I have left and
then lets you know okay no problem I'm
here to offer any advice when you need
it thank you ever so much good bye good
bye
hello
I'd like some advice please sure how can
I help you I'm on vacation but I'm only
here for a few days
I'd like to know what tours do you
recommend okay
are you looking for a day excursion to
some local attractions an overnight trip
or perhaps a weekend getaway
I'd like to stay fairly local I think
because I've already done a lot of
traveling in that case may I suggest
that you look through this brochure and
see if there's anything there that
interests him thank you Kanchana berry
looks interesting I see that you have to
package tours to Canterbury can you give
me the price of each one certainly the
day trip costs one thousand three
hundred baht and the overnight trip
costs two thousand four hundred but it
looks like there's a lot more items
included on the two-day itinerary so I
think I'll choose that one okay I will
make the reservation for you it's a
really good tour so I'm sure you'll
enjoy it thank you
besides the bangkok attractions can you
tell me what other day trips are
available certainly the two most popular
excursions are to a your TA intention
amore yes that's where the famous bridge
over the river kwai is isn't it
that's right we offer trips to the
bridge and also the death railway where
thousands of Allied troops were killed
by the brutal treatment of the Japanese
during its construction what else is
there to see in Kunshan every most in
the province remains specially populated
and wild so there are a number of
wildlife sanctuaries I'd like to go see
what the real Thai countryside looks
like yes you should the landscape is so
picturesque kanchanaburi has several
of Thailand's largest waterfalls they
are beautiful
okay I'm sold when can I go
unit 5 Thai customs this is my first
trip to Thailand and I'd like to find
out some information about Thai customs
ok the first thing you should know is
the Thai greeting yes I've seen that
when Thais greet each other they put
their hands together in a prayer
position that's right it's called the Y
and Thai people do it to show respect
for each other that's interesting we
just shake hands yes and most Thai
people know that so no one will be angry
with you if you don't lie however if
someone does Y to you then it's only
polite to return the greeting is that
the only time of Y is performed no Thai
people also show respect to images of
the king and Lord Buddha in the same way
although when the Y is performed on
these occasions the hands are held
higher and the head is bowed lower the
gesture can mean not only hello but also
thank you goodbye
and I'm sorry wow I didn't know that
thanks for your advice I heard that Thai
food is very delicious is it very spicy
Thai food is wonderful but a lot of our
dishes are made using chilies so be
careful especially if you're not used to
hot food is it possible to eat food that
isn't very spicy yes there are a number
of dishes that aren't too spicy look out
for dishes that are made using coconut
milk those tend to be less spicy is
there any Thai food I should watch out
for my advice is to try everything but
do be careful if you buy food from a
street vendor they are not governed by
the Health Authority so the food might
not be as clean or
prepared as the food you would get in a
restaurant thank you you've been very
helpful
no problem what do traditional Thai
homes look like well traditional homes
were made from teak they had ornate
roofs and were usually built on stilts
nowadays most people live in modern
houses or apartments what should I do if
I'm invited to a Thai house Thai people
are very hospitable so it's not unusual
to be invited into someone's home are
there any do's and don'ts well you must
remember to take your shoes off at the
door that's the most important thing
what should I expect oh you probably be
offered something to eat and drink a
glass of water a cup of coffee some
fruit whatever is at hand really but
what if I'm not hungry or thirsty you
should try something to refuse even a
taste might be considered impolite thank
you that's good advice - no you're
welcome unit six shopping
can you tell me the best place to go
shopping there are many places you can
buy inexpensive gifts and souvenirs from
department stores and shopping malls to
markets and street vendors what kind of
things should I buy traditional Thai
handicrafts include cotton and silk
weaving I definitely want to buy some
silk do you have any other suggestions
paper parasols and wood carvings are
other popular gift items if giving me
some very useful yes thank you what is
the best market to go to the best one
here in Bangkok is the justit's a
freaking market is that the biggest yes
it's huge you can buy just about
anything there and what about the
floating market Bangkok used to have
many floating markets until they started
to fill in the canals there are still
several around but some of them are now
just tourist shows probably the most
authentic one is the demands of the work
floating market is that worth going to
certainly there are pictures of floating
markets everywhere around Thailand and
the trip to Bangkok wouldn't be complete
without a look at one do you have any
advice for my visit to the market today
hmm be prepared to barter you can get
some real bargains but watch out the
vendors will start by asking a high
price for their goods you can usually
knock them down a lot though hmm
that could be fun is there anything else
I should know it's very hot so make sure
you drink plenty of water thank you I
will there is one more thing it's very
crowded and there may be pickpocket
around so be careful with your wallet oh
okay thanks for the advice
unit seven religion if you're going to
visit any temple then there are a few
things you should know yeah go ahead
well temples are sacred places so you
should dress politely okay what kind of
things should I avoid wearing you
shouldn't wear shorts or sleeveless tops
and you may be refused admission if
you're not wearing shoes with closed
heels and toes make sure you take your
shoes off though before you go inside
I'll remember that is there anything
else just be careful not to tread on the
doorframe when you step inside and if
you sit down then don't point your feet
towards the Buddha can I kneel or sit
cross-legged yes either spine the most
celebrated architectural form of
Thailand is the what the Thai Buddhist
temple complex
so the Wat is comprised of more than one
building yes a what is made up of
several buildings that serve all the
religious needs of the monastic
community there seem to be a lot of
temples in Thailand there are Thailand
has nearly 18,000 Buddhist temples
throughout the country wow that's a lot
well the temples provide religious
sanctuaries for Thailand's Buddhists who
account for about 95 percent of the
population the temples are covered with
the most beautiful paintings we're very
proud of them the mural paintings are
one of Thailand's great artistic
achievements do they all depict similar
stories well all the scenes are inspired
by Buddhist doctrines and are usually
intended to teach the worshippers about
religion and morality I've seen
miniature temples next to people's
houses
what are they for ah there's spirit
houses every tight house or building has
one so people believe that spirits live
in them yes
Thai people believe sacred spirits live
in their houses the spirits are called
pappu they make special spirit houses
for pappu to live in I spend some type
evil putting flowers and things inside
the family paid their respects to pop
him at the spirit house so the spirits
will protect the family and bring good
fortune thank you that's very
interesting we have nothing like that
back home unit 8 Bangkok's detractions
[Music]
when was the grand palace built King
Rama the first began construction of the
grand palace in 1882 which also marks
the founding of the jaggery dynasty the
complex is made up of more than 100
buildings covering an area of 132 acres
what was first built at the grand palace
first
there were three parts the throne Hall
the royal residence and what per cow it
looks like a ups dial yes the grand
palace is a copy of the former palace
that used to be in a you - yeah
fantastic
does the King actually live here no this
used to be the Kings residence but now
the king and his family residing Jitlada
a palace so what is inside the most
important is the jaggery maha prasat
throne Hall where the King receives
ambassadors at the presentation of their
credentials are there many ceremonies
conducted in the area
yes and there are some special royal
ceremonies held in an open field called
sanam Luang that's nearby - are there
other important temples yes
another interesting temple is what pole
so why is what pole famous what PO is an
ancient temple one of the oldest and
largest what's in Bangkok and it's
famous for its magnificent statue a
gigantic 46 metre reclining Buddha
that's huge
how old is it as a temple site it dates
back to the 16th century but it was
completely rebuilt in 1781 is that also
the place I can get a massage yes it's
the center for teaching of traditional
Thai healing and massage and our session
will cost you about 105 I think I'll go
there tomorrow I can do within my size
what other temples can I visit there is
one more very famous temple it's called
what Arun what other yes
or more commonly known as the temple of
Thanh the architecture has some
distinctive features its style is
typical of the iut a period I think I've
seen a picture it has a huge pagoda
doesn't it yes the pagoda is very large
it is 82 meters high and 234 meters wide
sitting on the bank of the mighty top
layer River what's in the compound the
pavilion contains massive murals that
depict images of the Buddha's life
that's well worth a look - thank you
unit nine historical sites in a UTM
where is a UTI a UTS stance on the Chao
Phraya River not too far from Bangkok
about an hour and a half by car it used
to be the old capital right yes the city
served as the capitol of Siam until 1767
when it was sacked by the Burmese and
the capital was moved to Bangkok what
can I expect to see there there are
several magnificent ancient Buddhist
pagodas that are still standing and also
a 16th century Palace built on a nearby
island as a summer residence for the
King I'd like to find out more about
ancient ruins this was one of Thailand's
golden eras and there are many
enchanting ruins there it's a world
heritage site
what is the most important site there
among other points of interest is what
precedes ump it was that's a royal
palace it was used as a royal temple in
Paris by several kings in one's house a
colossal 16 meter high Buddha covered
with 250 kilograms of gold what happened
to it it was melted down by the burmese
when they conquered the capital that's a
shame I'm sure it would have been an
awesome sight now the site is mainly
known for the line of three large
teddies which contained the remains of
royal families are there any other
attractions nearby there is bunker in
which was constructed as the summer
palace for king rama v what's that the
complex is made of a collection of many
ornate buildings including the Chinese
style
we had Cameroon palace that is open to
visitors anything else yes there's the
elephant crawl which is a restored
version of the wooden stockade once used
from the annual roundup of wild
elephants the king used to have a wait
platform there from which to observe the
thrilling event you'd attend attractions
in Chiang Mai
how big is Chiang Mai Ching mice one of
Thailand's largest cities it covers an
area of 20,000 square kilometres
could you tell me some interesting
places to visit
there are many ruins of the 13th and
14th century temples in the old section
of the city what is the most famous
temple the most famous temple in Chiang
Mai isn't within the walled city but
located on a nearby hilltop it's called
what proton noise at a how high is
Dorset eh
it's three thousand five hundred twenty
feet above sea level and forms a
picturesque backdrop to the city why is
it considered the most sacred temple in
Chiang Mai within the temple complex
there is a Chetty which is believed to
contain relics of Lord Buddha many
people make pilgrimages each year to
this temple is Tang mine in ancient city
Ching hai was founded in 1296 on the
site of an 11th century settlement and
was the capital of the lam 90 Kingdom
what is there to see and do in Chiang
Mai there are an increasing number of
cultural learning experiences available
you can try Thai cooking massage yoga
meditation and more I've been told that
handicrafts in Chiang Mai are very
popular what can i buy there all kinds
of things they vary from silverware to
wood carvings and silk to pottery is
there a market yes Chiang Mai is famous
for its Night Bazaar it
really good market and a great place to
buy your souvenirs it sounds like
there's quite a lot to do maybe I should
stay a little longer than I planned to
make sure I get to see all these places
I'm glad to hear that you know if you're
staying there for more than just a
couple of days
another popular excursion is to take a
trek up to one of the local hill tribes
I've seen postcards of people trekking
in the hills riding on the backs of
elephants can I ride on one yes it's a
great way to travel you can sit down and
take in the splendor of the majestic
countryside it is a little bumpy though
and a lot of fun too yes can I have some
more information about your tours there
sure and if you need any more help then
please come and ask thank you where are
you going where are you going that means
that like which place are you going to
where are you going I'm going to the
bank I'm going to the bank or I'm going
to the library I'm going to the
supermarket where are you going I'm
going to the bank number 2 do you
usually go to the library that means
that do you go to the library often do
you often go to the library use your
remember this is your you sure work sure
usually do you usually go to the library
do you usually go to light sorry do you
usually go to the library yes I do yes I
do you can link them together yes I yes
I do I go there there that means library
I go there once a week you can say I go
there every day I go there every week I
go there two or three times a week or I
go there once a week once a week that
mean
one time a week or weekly yes I go there
once a week or you can say no I
sometimes go there
I sometimes remember like I don't go
there often just maybe like one month or
two months once one once everyone's
every one or two months something like
that okay so you can say no I sometimes
go there or you can say I if you have
never been there you can say I never go
there or you can say I rarely I hardly
go there they say but sometimes okay so
no I sometimes go there do you usually
go to library yes I do I go there once a
week or no I sometimes go there
number three is there a supermarket
nearby Leben like is there in the
supermarket and that is around here that
is near here you can say nearby or near
here is there a supermarket nearby yes
there is and then you can get the other
direction okay you can say I'll go
straight ahead or turn right or two left
something like that and then this is my
example go straight for 100 meters okay
so you can say yes there is it goes
straight for 100 meters and no there
isn't
all right you could say if you are if
you don't know about that you can say if
you don't know about that you can say
sorry I don't know sorry
I don't know
if you are not familiar with their
places there you can say sorry I don't
know okay or sorry I have no idea about
this place again you can say ask is
there supermarket nearby yes there is
go straight a straight and remember to
straight go straight
400 meter or no their reason or if you
don't know you can say sorry I don't
know okay so that's all for today thanks
goodbye see ya